Hi,

Tuesday 17 May 2016

The tool I told you about yesterday, BigBang, it worked really well and has
downloaded all the messages from public-html-media mailing list as mbox files
and I can simply load and read them from thunderbird.

Today I spent most my time reading mails from the public-html mailing list and
there have been stiff opposition to EME from February 2012 when EME was first
proposed inside W3C. See the [notes](notes_from_mailing_list.md) for more
details.

Then I had a good discussion with Udbhav and we were talking about how DRM is
not really about the content but about the DRM platform providers. These DRM
platform providers, CDN providers in EME case, which are basically Apple,
Google, Microsoft and Adobe and they'll get to lock-in both the content
providers and the users, unless the CDNs are interoperable. Udbhav drew an
analogy between the SSL Certificate Authorities and CDN providers because in
both the cases there is third party on which we have to rely on, but we
figured out that the case are different because in case of CAs for a new
browser to come up, the browser manufacturer don't to take permission from the
CA to come up, where as in case CDN it will have to.

At the end of the day, me Udbhav and Hans had a really long discussion/debate
on need or lack of need of copyright. The discussion turned interesting when
Udbhav claimed that there is a "right to profit" and Hans thrashed that. Hans
clarified that profit is very different from remuneration, profit is what you
earn over and above what you have given in and ones profit is someone else's
lose. You are allowed to do something is very different from having a right to
do it. Rights have to be defended by the state and state at no circumstances
should defend your will to earn over and above what you have given in.
