Hi,

Today I started my internship at Center for Internet and Society (CIS), India.
CIS is a small non-profit which researches on Internet and related technologies
from a law and policy perspective. And yes this is not a software internet, I
wanted to explore other areas and specifically chose law because it is
important to make sure things go in the right direction. I was telling this to
a co-intern in the office that just because technology is moving forward and
things are becoming bigger, better and more reliable doesn't mean that things
are moving in the right direction. Just like Ippolita said, "Technology is
neither positive or negative. Technology is power and power is never neutral"
Law is one way in which power is kept in check and I want to see how things
work out there.

So, today, I with Sunil Abraham and we decided that I should continue on my
work on DRM in HTML 5. He has asked me to come with a research proposal and
formulate the research question, give an overview of the methodology I want to
use or I expect to use, what will be timeline and budget requirements if any.
Then they ordered a cake for the new interns, we introduced ourselves and then
I spent the rest of my time moving around and talking to people. There are a
lots of interns out here, mostly law students, and they are working on
interesting stuff, I'll probably let out the details in future entries. I also
spent some time learning about reference management softwares and try to figure
out which should I use. My main work will start from tomorrow and I'm excited
:)

Bye
