Hi,

So, yesterday I finished a draft of my research proposal, it took more time
than I expected, so I guess I need to retune my expectations. It was really
nice talking with people, most of the people here have law background and they
were talking about the horrors of working at corporate law firms.

Today morning I cleaned up the draft and sent it out to Vidushi, Sunil and
Udbhav. The draft didn't have citation and I spent my after noon trying to add
that, I found a really nice tool called Zotero which can be used to create
BibTex items out of webpages. I though after I have all the BibTex item things
will be easy, I exported the BibTex items to a .bib file and used the same make
file we used for the WIGI OpenSym paper. But it didn't work out, and it is hard
to figure what's wrong. Oh man, LaTeX has such cryptic error messages. I tried
a few things and then I gave up, I don't want to spend all my time figuring out
LaTeX instead of writing or reading things out. Though I still don't want to
use Libre Office or other word processor because I want to remain in my vim
environment, lets see.

By evening I had discussion with Udbhav regarding my research proposal. As per
Sunil's suggestion I mainly proposed to document the participation process of
W3C and do a stakeholders analysis on EME. Udbhav suggested that I have
at least one part of the proposal focusing on normative questions like answering
questions like, "assuming DRM is here to stay, is EME the `best` technical
implementation?", "if its not, what can be better ways to implement it?", "And
what can be the policy decisions by W3C on EME", that'll make the paper more
authoritative. I want to do something which can have more impact in the outcome
of EME but I'm not sure how, lets see in process of writing this paper I hope
I'll figure something out.
