Hi,

Thursday 16 June 2016 11:06:12 PM IST

Lately I have been kinda lazy to write down my intern diary. Earlier the first
thing I used to do in the office was to write last day's diary. Then the
regularity broke, some days I began to write diary at the end of the day and
some days I just didn't write it.

Well yesterday I continued investigating about OpenSocial, I told you that
there were many websites which used OpenSocial in 2011, I checked the developer
API of 5 of them and none of them use OpenSocial now, LinkedIn and Xing's
developer page has no mention of OpenSocial or any other standardized spec, hi5
and Myspace's developer page didn't open up and Friendster doesn't exist
anymore. All this is not explained by Facebook's growth. The likely
explaination is that for some reason the developer of OpenSocial gave up on it
and then the standard didn't evolve and because of that everyone moved on. BTW
W3C's Social Web working doesn't appeared to be focused on connecting to
existing large closed social networks, but rather on indieweb. Though all the
specs in collective can be used for the purpose, at least that what I hope. My
work for the remaining time should be focused on figuring out if this really
the case and frame the idealized vision of interoperability of social networks
and to what extent it is possible with current tools and infrastructure. I'm
being really slow, I should finish up EME work tomorrow and then finish up
OpenSocial work next week.

Today I worked for ~2 hours. So Wikipedia Train the Trainer program is being
held at CIS office and everyone else has to move to a temporary office for the
time being. This office is rented only for the period of 9 AM to 6 PM so I
cannot follow my usual schedule of comming at 11:30 and going back at 7:30. I
came really late today because I've got a little cold and also because my
roommate at PG accidentally locked my laptop charger in his cupboard instead of
his, so I had to walk back from the office get the charger and go back. So
Airtel has started this thing called Airtel Open Network where have put up an
online portal where we you can see network information like signal strength,
number of installed and planned towers. Me and Aditya Tejas wrote a small
article presenting a quick analysis of it [1]. I really like the way he quickly
produced an article and I was simply digressing to tangents. After the basic
parts where there we reviewed it, expanded on some of the comments and
published the article by the end of the day. Someone said right, "Enemy of Good
is better".

[1]:  http://cis-india.org/internet-governance/blog/airtel-open-network
